# Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

This repository contains the following files:

* CodeBook.md
* README.md
* run_analysis.R

## CodeBook.md

This file contains a complete list of variable names, definitions and units that describe the
output data file generated by executing the *run_analisys.R* script.

## README.md

This file describes the contents of the current repository and provides a description of the
steps applied by the run_analysis.R script to clean and transform the raw UCI HAR Dataset.

## run_analysis.R

### Description

This R script is designed to generate a tidy, analysis-ready data set from the raw UCI HAR Dataset.
The script applies the following steps:

1. Merges the raw training and test data sets
2. Attaches meaningful variable names based on the vector features lables described in
the features.txt file.
3. Labels the activity codes using the descriptive activity names listed in the activity_labels.txt file.
4. Subsets the merged data set to include only the variables associated with mean and standard deviation
  * This is done by selecting only variable names that contain 'mean' or 'std' key words.
5. Creates a final data set by averaging each variable by subject and activity.  The resulting data set
is written out to the output.csv file.

### How to execute run_analysis.R

1. Download and unzip the UCI HAR Dataset from the following URL:
  * https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip
  * NOTE: Make sure the raw UCI HAR Data and run_analysis.R are both in your working directory.
2. Execute run_analysis.R
  * The resulting data set 'output.csv' will be written in the current working directory.  A complete
  description of this data set can be found in the CodeBook.md file.
